Celestial Bodies - Asteroids:

Asteroids, sometimes called minor planets, are rocky, airless remnants left over from the early
formation of our solar system about 4.6 billion years ago.

The current known asteroid count is: 1,038,384.

Most of this ancient space rubble can be found orbiting the Sun between Mars and Jupiter
within the main asteroid belt. Asteroids range in size from Vesta — the largest at about 329
miles (530 kilometers) in diameter — to bodies that are less than 33 feet (10 meters) across.
The total mass of all the asteroids combined is less than that of Earth's Moon.

Asteroids are small, rocky solar system bodies that populate interplanetary space out to the
orbit of Jupiter. There are millions of them, and they are often grouped by their composition. The
planetary science community refers to them as minor planets, a general term applied to solar
system bodies smaller than moons. Asteroids are mainly made of materials left over from the
formation of the inner solar system words. Most of them orbit the Sun between Mars and
Jupiter, although there are groups of them that orbit closer. Asteroids come in three composition
classes. C-types (chondrites) are made of clay and silicate rocks. S-types are the so-called
"stony" asteroids and are made mostly of silicate rocks and nickel-iron mixtures. M-types are
metallic nickel-iron. These categories indicate how far from the Sun they formed in the early
solar system.

Asteroids are small, rocky objects that orbit the Sun. Although asteroids orbit the Sun like
planets, they are much smaller than planets. There are lots of asteroids in our solar system.
Most of them live in the main asteroid belt-a region between the orbits of Mars and Jupiter.
Some asteroids go in front of and behind Jupiter. They are called Trojans. Asteroids that come
close to Earth are called Near Earth Objects, NEOs for short.

Asteroids continue to come close to Earth in their orbits. They are called near-Earth objects
(NEOs) or Potentially Hazardous Asteroids (PHAs). If orbital conditions are right, it's possible
that a NEO could crash to Earth's surface. Depending on the size of the impactor, the damage
to our planet (and us) could range from very little to catastrophic. A small incoming object would
likely break up in our atmosphere. A larger one could rain very large pieces down on the surface
or into the oceans. There are groups of astronomers searching out and mapping the positions of
these NEOs in order to predict possible impacts weeks, months, or years in advance. Several
organizations are making plans in case something should hit and cause damage. The chances
of something hitting Earth are very small, but also depend on the size and orbit of the object.

