Comets:

Comets are frozen leftovers from the formation of the solar system composed of dust, rock and
ices. They range from a few miles to tens of miles wide, but as they orbit closer to the sun, they
heat up and spew gases and dust into a glowing head that can be larger than a planet. This
material forms a tail that stretches millions of miles.

Comets are cosmic snowballs of frozen gases, rock and dust that orbit the Sun. When frozen,
they are the size of a small town. When a comet's orbit brings it close to the Sun, it heats up and
spews dust and gases into a giant glowing head larger than most planets. The dust and gases
form a tail that stretches away from the Sun for millions of miles. There are likely billions of
comets orbiting our Sun in the Kuiper Belt and even more distant Oort Cloud.

The current number of known comets is: 3,696

Comets orbit the Sun just like planets and asteroids do, except a comet usually has a very
elongated orbit. As the comet gets closer to the Sun, some of the ice starts to melt and boil off, 
along with particles of dust. These particles and gases make a cloud around the nucleus, called a coma.
The coma is lit by the Sun. The sunlight also pushes this material into the beautiful brightly lit tail
of the comet.
A comet is a very small solar system body made mostly of ices mixed with smaller amounts of
dust and rock. Most comets are no larger than a few kilometres across. The main body of the
comet is called the nucleus, and it can contain water, methane, nitrogen and other ices.
When a comet is heated by the Sun, its ices begin to sublimate (similar to the way dry ice
"fizzes" when you leave it in sunlight). The mixture of ice crystals and dust blows away from the
comet nucleus in the solar wind, creating a pair of tails. The dust tail is what we normally see
when we view comets from Earth.

A plasma tail also forms when molecules of gas are "excited" by interaction with the solar wind.
The plasma tail is not normally seen with the naked eye, but can be imaged. Comets normally
orbit the Sun, and have their origins in the Oort Cloud and Kuiper Belt regions of the outer solar
system.

Comet Naming:
Comets come in several categories. The most common are periodic and non-periodic.
In the past, comets were named for their discoverers, such as Comet Halley for Sir Edmond
Halley. In modern times, comet names are governed by rules set forth by the International
Astronomical Union (IAU). A comet is given an official designation, and can also be identified by
the last names of up to three independent discoverers.


