Earth: 
Our home planet is the third planet from the Sun, and the only place we know of so far that's inhabited 
by living things. While Earth is only the fifth largest planet in the solar system, it is the only 
world in our solar system with liquid water on the surface. Just slightly larger than nearby Venus, 
Earth is the biggest of the four planets closest to the Sun, all of which are made of rock and metal. 
The name Earth is at least 1,000 years old. All of the planets, except for Earth, were named after Greek 
and Roman gods and goddesses. However, the name Earth is a Germanic word, which simply means "the ground." 
 
Size and Distance:
With a radius of 3,959 miles (6,371 kilometers), Earth is the biggest of the terrestrial planets, and 
the fifth largest planet overall. From an average distance of 93 million miles (150 million kilometers), 
Earth is exactly one astronomical unit away from the Sun because one astronomical unit (abbreviated as 
AU), is the distance from the Sun to Earth. This unit provides an easy way to quickly compare planets' 
distances from the Sun. It takes about eight minutes for light from the Sun to reach our planet. 
 
Orbit and Rotation:
As Earth orbits the Sun, it completes one rotation every 23.9 hours. It takes 365.25 days to complete 
one trip around the Sun. That extra quarter of a day presents a challenge to our calendar system, 
which counts one year as 365 days. To keep our yearly calendars consistent with our orbit around the 
Sun, every four years we add one day. That day is called a leap day, and the year it's added to is 
called a leap year. Earth's axis of rotation is tilted 23.4 degrees with respect to the plane of 
Earth's orbit around the Sun.  
 
Structure:
Earth is composed of four main layers, starting with an inner core at the planet's center, enveloped 
by the outer core, mantle and crust. The inner core is a solid sphere made of iron and nickel metals 
about 759 miles (1,221 kilometers) in radius. There the temperature is as high as 9,800 degrees 
Fahrenheit (5,400 degrees Celsius). Surrounding the inner core is the outer core. This layer is about 
1,400 miles (2,300 kilometers) thick, made of iron and nickel fluids. In between the outer core and 
crust is the mantle, the thickest layer. This hot, viscous mixture of molten rock is about 1,800 miles 
(2,900 kilometers) thick and has the consistency of caramel. The outermost layer, Earth's crust, goes 
about 19 miles (30 kilometers) deep on average on land. At the bottom of the ocean, the crust is 
thinner and extends about 3 miles (5 kilometers) from the sea floor to the top of the mantle. 
 
Formation:
When the solar system settled into its current layout about 4.5 billion years ago, Earth formed when 
gravity pulled swirling gas and dust in to become the third planet from the Sun. 