Jupiter:
Jupiter is the largest planet in the solar system. Fittingly, it was named after the king of the gods 
in Roman mythology. In a similar manner, the ancient Greeks named the planet after Zeus, the king of 
the Greek pantheon.
Jupiter helped revolutionize the way we saw the universe and ourselves in 1610, when Galileo discovered 
Jupiter's four large moons - Io, Europa, Ganymede and Callisto, now known as the Galilean moons. This 
was the first time that celestial bodies were seen circling an object other than Earth, and gave major 
support to the Copernican view that Earth was not the center of the universe.
Jupiter:
Jupiter is more than twice as massive as all the other planets combined. If the enormous planet was 
about 80 times more massive, it would have actually become a star instead of a planet. Jupiter's 
immense volume could hold more than 1,300 Earths. That means that if Jupiter were the size of a 
basketball, Earth would be the size of a grape. Jupiter has a dense core of uncertain composition, 
surrounded by a helium-rich layer of fluid metallic hydrogen that extends out to 80% to 90% of the 
diameter of the planet.

Jupiter's atmosphere resembles that of the sun, made up mostly of hydrogen and helium. The colorful 
light and dark bands that surround Jupiter are created by strong east-west winds in the planet's upper 
atmosphere traveling more than 335 mph (539 km/h). The white clouds in the light zones are made of 
crystals of frozen ammonia, while darker clouds made of other chemicals are found in the dark belts. 
At the deepest visible levels are blue clouds. Far from being static, the stripes of clouds change 
over time. Inside the atmosphere, diamond rain may fill the skies.

The most extraordinary feature on Jupiter is the Great Red Spot, a giant hurricane-like storm that's 
lasted more than 300 years. At its widest, the Great Red Spot is about twice the size of Earth, and 
its edge spins counterclockwise around its center at speeds of about 270 to 425 mph (430 to 680 km/h). 
The color of the storm, which usually varies from brick red to slightly brown, may come from small 
amounts of sulfur and phosphorus in the ammonia crystals in Jupiter's clouds. The spot has been 
shrinking for quite some time, although the rate may be slowing in recent years. 
Jupiter's gargantuan magnetic field is the strongest of all the planets in the solar system at nearly 
20,000 times the strength of Earth's. It traps electrically charged particles in an intense belt of 
electrons and other electrically charged particles that regularly blasts the planet's moons and rings 
with radiation more than 1,000 times the lethal level for a human, enough to damage even heavily 
shielded spacecraft, such as NASA's Galileo probe. 