Mercury: 
The smallest planet in our solar system and nearest to the Sun, Mercury is only slightly larger than 
Earth's Moon. From the surface of Mercury, the Sun would appear more than three times as large as it 
does when viewed from Earth, and the sunlight would be as much as seven times brighter. Despite its 
proximity to the Sun, Mercury is not the hottest planet in our solar system - that title belongs to 
nearby Venus, thanks to its dense atmosphere. Nearest to the Sun, Mercury is only slightly larger 
than Earth's Moon. From the surface of Mercury, the Sun would appear more than three times as large as 
it does when viewed from Earth, and the sunlight would be as much as seven times brighter. Despite its 
proximity to the Sun, Mercury is not the hottest planet in our solar system - that title belongs to 
nearby Venus, thanks to its dense atmosphere. But Mercury is the fastest planet, zipping around the 
Sun every 88 Earth days. Mercury is appropriately named for the swiftest of the ancient Roman gods. 
 
Size and Distance: 
With a radius of 1,516 miles (2,440 kilometers), Mercury is a little more than 1/3 the width of Earth. 
If Earth were the size of a nickel, Mercury would be about as big as a blueberry. From an average 
distance of 36 million miles (58 million kilometers), Mercury is 0.4 astronomical units away from the 
Sun. One astronomical unit (abbreviated as AU), is the distance from the Sun to Earth. From this 
distance, it takes sunlight 3.2 minutes to travel from the Sun to Mercury. miles (47 kilometers) per 
second, faster than any other planet. 
Mercury spins slowly on its axis and completes one rotation every 59 Earth days. But when Mercury is 
moving fastest in its elliptical orbit around the Sun (and it is closest to the Sun), each rotation is 
not accompanied by a sunrise and sunset like it is on most other planets. The morning Sun appears to 
rise briefly, set and rise again from some parts of the planet's surface. The same thing happens in 
reverse at sunset for other parts of the surface. One Mercury solar day (one full day-night cycle) 
equals 176 Earth days—just over two years on Mercury. Mercury's axis of rotation is tilted just 2 
degrees with respect to the plane of its orbit around the Sun. That means it spins nearly perfectly 
upright and so does not experience seasons like many other planets do. 
Structure:
Mercury is the second densest planet, after Earth. It has a large metallic core with a radius of about 
1,289 miles (2,074 kilometers), about 85 percent of the planet's radius. There is evidence that it is 
partly molten, or liquid. Mercury's outer shell, comparable to Earth's outer shell (called the mantle 
and crust), is only about 400 kilometers (250 miles) thick. 
 
Formation: 
Mercury formed about 4.5 billion years ago. 
 


 
