Venus: 
Similar in size and structure to Earth, Venus has been called Earth's twin. These are not identical 
twins, however - there are radical differences between the two worlds. Venus has a thick, toxic 
atmosphere filled with carbon dioxide and it's perpetually shrouded in thick, yellowish clouds of 
mostly sulfuric acid that trap heat, causing a runaway greenhouse effect. It's the hottest planet in 
our solar system, even though Mercury is closer to the Sun. Venus has crushing air pressure at its 
surface – more than 90 times that of Earth – similar to the pressure you'd encounter a mile below the 
ocean on Earth. Venus is the second planet from the Sun and our closest planetary neighbor. Similar 
in structure and size to Earth, Venus spins slowly in the opposite direction from most planets. Its 
thick atmosphere traps heat in a runaway greenhouse effect, making it the hottest planet in our solar 
system with surface temperatures hot enough to melt lead. Glimpses below the clouds reveal volcanoes 
and deformed mountains. Venus is named for the ancient Roman goddess of love and beauty, who was known 
as Aphrodite to the Ancient Greeks. 
 
Size and Distance:
With a radius of 3,760 miles (6,052 kilometers), Venus is roughly the same size as Earth — just 
slightly smaller. From an average distance of 67 million miles (108 million kilometers), Venus is 0.7 
astronomical units away from the Sun. One astronomical unit (abbreviated as AU), is the distance from 
the Sun to Earth. It takes sunlight 6 minutes to travel from the Sun to Venus. 
 
Orbit and Rotation:
Venus' rotation and orbit are unusual in several ways. Venus is one of just two planets that rotate 
from east to west. Only Venus and Uranus have this "backwards" rotation. It completes one rotation in 
243 Earth days — the longest day of any planet in our solar system, even longer than a whole year on 
Venus. But the Sun doesn't rise and set each "day" on Venus like it does on most other planets. On 
Venus, one day-night cycle takes 117 Earth days because Venus rotates in the direction opposite of its 
orbital revolution around the Sun. Venus makes a complete orbit around the Sun (a year in Venusian time) 
in 225 Earth days or slightly less than two Venusian day-night cycles. Its orbit around the Sun is the 
most circular of any planet — nearly a perfect circle. Other planet's orbits are more elliptical, or 
oval-shaped. With an axial tilt of just 3 degrees, Venus spins nearly upright, and so does not 
experience noticeable seasons. 
 
Structure:
Venus is in many ways similar to Earth in its structure. It has an iron core that is approximately 
2,000 miles (3,200 kilometers) in radius. Above that is a mantle made of hot rock slowly churning due 
to the planet's interior heat. 

 
